I. Language is our chief means for the expression and communication of thought.
Thoughts and beliefs may reveal themselves in non-linguistic behaviour, but they are only directly expressed linguistically. Without thought there could be no language, but without language, most kinds of thought would be impossible.
All human languages consist of a system of simple conventional units, words or morphemes, which may be combined according to definite grammatical principles. Language is essentially compositional and learnable: an indefinite number of distinct sentences may be generated out of combinations of simple units, in accordance with syntactical and logical ‘rules'. Language is a profoundly social enterprise; words are themselves social or communal objects, objects which standardly have meanings independently of particular users and their beliefs. And the syntactical and logical ‘rules', which are also independent of individual users, pre-determine the ways in which speakers can construct well-formed, grammatical sentences.
II. Although language is our central means for the expression and communication of thought, there is a fundamental ‘gap' or hiatus between our public language and our private thought. At the most basic level, our belief-formation is controlled and determined by our perceptual experience. At this level, seeing is believing; the formation of beliefs is not voluntary, considered or deliberate: our senses simply tell us what to think. But on the other hand, the linguistic expression of our thought is voluntary or deliberate. And for just this reason, it is possible to lie, to deliberately or intentionally produce false statements. Beliefs or thoughts too may, of course, be false; experience may mislead; but there can be no such things as deliberately false beliefs.
But this voluntary / involuntary hiatus is only one of several chasms between thought and language. There is a further hiatus between utterance and meaning: what one says may not be what one means; and this, with no intention to mislead. The phenomenon of irony, for instance, typically involves saying the exact opposite of what one means, with the expectation and intent that the audience will recognise the gap. In this type of case, what is actually communicated is what the speaker means, not what they speaker says.The point of irony is to convey the opposite of what one says. Again, in poetic language, the effects which are intended are typically distinct from what is said. The actual meaning of the sentence ‘No man is an island' is such that it is an outright truism. But the poetic effect which is communicated, which is the entire point of the poetic utterance, is one of metaphor (a ‘deeper' form of truth, perhaps). Likewise, in the case of ‘Men are wolves', we have a straightforward obvious falsehood — but as a metaphor, the falsity of what it said is not the point.
III. We must therefore distinguish between two key levels in the understanding of language. We must distinguish between the semantical, the level of the sentence, the level of what is actually said or uttered, and the pragmatic, the level of intentions and effects, the level of what is communicated or understood.
The semantical level is the level of ‘objective' sentence-meaning, the level of the meanings of words and their grammatical combinations. The pragmatic level is the level of ‘subjective' meaning, the meaning of the speaker and of the intentions underlying the act of communication. Speakers do not determine the meanings of their words: objective sentence-meaning transcends the individual speaker, the user of language. But in the nature of the case, the act of communication in itself does not transcend the speaker and their meaning. Of course, what a person means may be precisely what they say: it is possible for the semantic and the pragmatic to coincide, and this is perhaps a sort of fundamental case. Nevertheless, truth and falsehood exist at both levels, what is said and what is meant. What a person means may be true while what they say is false (as in irony or in metaphor); or again, what they say may be true while what they mean to communicate is false.
The theory of language as such or in itself must therefore be distinguished from the theory of communication. The theory of language is centrally the study of semantical phenomena — of the properties of words and sentences as such, of their meanings, their references, their truth and falsity — and not of the beliefs and intentions of speakers. Whereas communication depends on language, language itself has a certain autonomy. However within the phenomena of language, it is essential to distinguish two further ‘levels', those of the sentence-type and sentence-token.
The same string of words may be uttered by different individuals in different contexts; the same sentence-type may correspond to many different utterances or tokens. Truth and falsity are chiefly properties of utterances, not of sentence-types. Sentence-types embody meaning in one sense, the conventional meanings of the words they contain. But only utterances are used to express beliefs and communicate ideas. The hiatus between thought and language notwithstanding, only utterances (written or spoken) can count as true or false.
IV. The study of sentence-tokens, and so of truths and falsehoods in this sense, falls within the domain of logic and semantics. Modern logico-semantic analysis of sentences, including sentence tokens, represents them as consisting of distinct functional elements: singular terms (referring expressions, names or constants); variables; logical connectives; predicates (general concept words); and quantifiers. Singular terms may correspond to the individual contents of experience (this and that are what I see); general terms correspond to the classification and description of these things under concepts. This is of such-and-such a kind; it has such-and-such an attribute. The underlying sentential structure into which these distinct functional elements are embedded constitutes the logical form of the sentence; and logical connectives supply the formal basis for all inference or reasoning. Indeed, the principles of logic constitute the minimal universal preconditions for the possibility of thought and language.
Examination of the semantic content of sentences then links the theory of language with metaphysics and ontology: the questions may be raised, what is the logical form of a given sentence, and to what do the component parts of that sentence correspond? In some highly complex manner, the classical metaphysical concepts of substance and attribute are supposed to correspond to the linguistic concepts of subject and predicate, noun-phrase and verb-phrase. But superficial grammar is one thing, and logico-semantic form another. While Socrates is indeed the subject of the sentence ‘Socrates was snub-nosed', Nothing is not the subject of ‘Nothing is more important than the truth'. ‘Socrates' is a genuine singular term or name; ‘Nothing', however, is not.
V. In contrast, examination of the broader context for the production of sentences reveals the greater whole of which all language is a part. The possibility of language presupposes the existence of perceptual experience of the world, the basis for the formation of beliefs. The possibility of language presupposes too the existence of conceptual capacities, the possession of abstract concepts, along with the capacity for rational thought. Sentences are inter-connected by principles of reasoning or inference; and the thoughts which they express are logically connected as elements within an overall system of beliefs. To hold beliefs, we require concepts and experiences, and the associated power to integrate these distinct units into complete thoughts.
But although experience seems a necessary condition for the formation of the most basic beliefs and statements, the contents of beliefs and statements very commonly transcend the contents of experience. The power of symbolism vastly expands our psychological horizon. Even the simplest statements concerning tomorrow, next year, or the next millenium, all transcend experience. Scientific statements transcend perceptual experience by postulating objects unperceived; we can combine experiential concepts to derive the non-experiential — ‘smaller than that speck' (Quine). And the domain of mathematical language is primarily non-empirical, grounded not in experience, but consisting rather of truths which are a priori, independent of experience. Again, we think of possibilities, of that which might be but is not, of possible states of affairs, situations which do not actually exist. Again, there is the realm of the normative, of what should and should not be, what ought to be and what ought not to be, of justice and injustice, right and wrong. In the nature of the case, all statements concerning what ought to be essentially transcend experience. Finally, there is the realm of fiction. In such ways as these, thought and language extend far beyond their primitive grounding in our experiential contact with the world. Precisely because we are creatures of language, we live in a world of falsehoods and fantasies, theories and possibilities, ideals and abstractions, and not merely of plain facts.